README.md, before:

## Key Concepts

**Microservices Architecture:**
 - A design approach where an application is composed of small, independent services that communicate over a network.
 - Microservices: Small, independent services running in a Kubernetes cluster.

**server.py**
Code for the authentication microservice. 
This microservice has two main endpoints, login and validate
/login endpoint handles user login by verifying credentials.
/validate endpoint validates the JWT included in subsequent requests.

## Use case scenario

As an end user, when you log in to an application, you provide your username and password. 
When you login to the application, your browser sends a POST request to /login with your credentials.

The API gateway receives the request and routes it to the authentication microservice.
The authentication microservice connects to the MySQL database, checks the credentials against the database.

If credentials are valid, the microservice generates a JWT, then returns the JWT to the API gateway, and then to the client's browser

After logging in, the application gives you a token (JWT) behind the scenes. You don’t see this token, but it’s stored in your browser.

Your browser includes the JWT in subsequent requests to the server. So that when you navigate the application (e.g., uploading a file, viewing your profile), the server uses this token to verify your identity and permissions.

The server checks the token to see what you are allowed to do. For example, if you have admin privileges, you might see additional options or features.

**Python:**
 - The primary programming language used to develop the microservices.

**Kubernetes:**
- Automates the deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications.
- It eliminates manual processes involved in deploying and scaling applications.
- It ensures the desired number of pods are running. If a pod crashes, Kubernetes automatically replaces it.
- Scaling up or down is simplified, it handles the deployment and load balancing.

**Kubernetes Objects:**
- Kubernetes uses objects to represent the state of s cluster. These objects are defined in YAML files and in this project the objects are:
    - Deployment:
        - Manages the deployment of the application.
        - Ensures the specified number of copies (replicas) of the app are running.
        - Handles updates and scaling (making more or fewer copies)

    - ConfigMap:
        - Stores configuration data as key-value pairs (like a dictionary).
        - Injects configuration data into the app without changing the app code.

    - Secret:
        - Stores sensitive data such as passwords and tokens.
        - Injects sensitive data into the app securely.

    - Service:
        - Exposes a set of pods as a network service.
        - Provides load balancing and service discovery (helps find and distribute traffic to your app).

**RabbitMQ:**
 - Facilitates communication between microservices.
 
**MongoDB:**
- Database. Stores data in a flexible, JSON-like format.

**MySQL:**
- Stores structured data with relationships between tables.

## Overall Architecture

**API Gateway**
- The entry point to the application, receiving requests from the client and communicating with internal        services to fulfill those requests (routing requests to appropriate microservices)
- Defines the functionality of the application, e.g endpoints for login and validating user, uploading files.
- It receives requests from clients outside the Kubernetes cluster.

**Authentication Microservice**
- Handles user login and token validation using Flask, MySQL, and JWT
- The server.py file is part of the authentication microservice.
- This microservice handles user login and token validation.
- It connects to a MySQL database to manage user data.
- It uses JWT for secure authentication.

**Kubernetes Cluster**

The microservices, including the authentication service, run inside the Kubernetes cluster.
By default, Kubernetes clusters are designed to be secure and isolated from external access to protect internal services.
The API gateway routes requests to the appropriate microservices within the cluster and manage external access is typically managed through specific end points for example /login /validate /upload 


**manifest directory**
- Contains all the Kubernetes configuration files needed for the deployment of auth service
- These configuration files in the this directory are used to pull the Docker image from the repository and deploy it to the Kubernetes cluster.
- These files include:
    - auth-deploy.yaml: Defines the deployment for the auth service, specifying the number of replicas, the Docker image to use, and environment variables.
    - configmap.yaml: Defines a ConfigMap for non-sensitive environment variables, such as database host, user, and port.
    - secret.yaml: Defines a Secret for sensitive data like passwords and JWT secrets.
    - service.yaml: Defines a Service to expose the auth deployment within the Kubernetes cluster, specifying the ports and type of service

**Deployment Process**
- The auth service is implemented in server.py that contains the logic for handling authentication.
- A Dockerfile is created to build the server.py script into a Docker image, the image is then pushed to a Docker repository.
- When the Kubernetes configuration files are applied using kubectl apply -f ./ (make sure minikube is started), they interface with the Kubernetes API and manage the resources defined in the configuration files.
- The Docker image containing the auth service code is pullk9sed from the repository and deployed to the cluster.
- The Kubernetes API creates the necessary resources (e.g., pods, services) based on the configuration files.
- The Kubernetes API manages the resources in the cluster, such as deployments, services, ConfigMaps, and Secrets.

Commit message:

edit description of the project

README.md, after:

## Key Concepts

**Microservices Architecture:**
 - A design approach where an application is composed of small, independent services that communicate over a network.
 - Microservices: Small, independent services running in a Kubernetes cluster.

**server.py**
Code for the authentication microservice. 
This microservice has two main endpoints, login and validate
/login endpoint handles user login by verifying credentials.
/validate endpoint validates the JWT included in subsequent requests.

## Use case scenario

As an end user, when you log in to an application, you provide your username and password. 
When you login to the application, your browser sends a POST request to /login with your credentials.

The API gateway receives the request and routes it to the authentication microservice.
The authentication microservice connects to the MySQL database, checks the credentials against the database.

If credentials are valid, the microservice generates a JWT, then returns the JWT to the API gateway, and then to the client's browser

After logging in, the application gives you a token (JWT) behind the scenes. You don’t see this token, but it’s stored in your browser.

Your browser includes the JWT in subsequent requests to the server. So that when you navigate the application (e.g., uploading a file, viewing your profile), the server uses this token to verify your identity and permissions.

The server checks the token to see what you are allowed to do. For example, if you have admin privileges, you might see additional options or features.

**Python:**
 - The primary programming language used to develop the microservices.

**Kubernetes:**
- Automates the deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications.
- It eliminates manual processes involved in deploying and scaling applications.
- It ensures the desired number of pods are running. If a pod crashes, Kubernetes automatically replaces it.
- Scaling up or down is simplified, it handles the deployment and load balancing.

**Kubernetes Objects:**
- Kubernetes uses objects to represent the state of a cluster. These objects are defined in YAML files
- For each microservice, typically we will have the following kubernetes objects: 
    - Deployment:
        - Manages the deployment of the microservice.
        - Ensures the specified number of copies (replicas) of the microservice are running.
        - Handles updates and scaling (making more or fewer copies)

    - ConfigMap:
        - Stores configuration data as key-value pairs (like a dictionary).
        - Injects configuration data into the microservice without changing the app code.

    - Secret:
        - Stores sensitive data such as passwords and tokens.
        - Injects sensitive data into the microservice securely.

    - Service:
        - Exposes a set of pods as a network service.
        - Provides load balancing and service discovery (helps find and distribute traffic to the microservice).

**RabbitMQ:**
 - Facilitates communication between microservices.
 
**MongoDB:**
- Database. Stores data in a flexible, JSON-like format.

**MySQL:**
- Stores structured data with relationships between tables.

## Overall Architecture

**API Gateway**
- The entry point to the application, receiving requests from the client and communicating with internal        services to fulfill those requests (routing requests to appropriate microservices)
- Defines the functionality of the application, e.g endpoints for login and validating user, uploading files.
- It receives requests from clients outside the Kubernetes cluster.

**Authentication Microservice**
- Handles user login and token validation using Flask, MySQL, and JWT
- The server.py file is part of the authentication microservice.
- This microservice handles user login and token validation.
- It connects to a MySQL database to manage user data.
- It uses JWT for secure authentication.

**Kubernetes Cluster**

The microservices, including the authentication service, run inside the Kubernetes cluster.
By default, Kubernetes clusters are designed to be secure and isolated from external access to protect internal services.
The API gateway routes requests to the appropriate microservices within the cluster and manage external access is typically managed through specific end points for example /login /validate /upload 


**manifest directory**
- Contains all the Kubernetes configuration files needed for the deployment of auth service
- These configuration files in the this directory are used to pull the Docker image from the repository and deploy it to the Kubernetes cluster.
- These files include:
    - auth-deploy.yaml: Defines the deployment for the auth service, specifying the number of replicas, the Docker image to use, and environment variables.
    - configmap.yaml: Defines a ConfigMap for non-sensitive environment variables, such as database host, user, and port.
    - secret.yaml: Defines a Secret for sensitive data like passwords and JWT secrets.
    - service.yaml: Defines a Service to expose the auth deployment within the Kubernetes cluster, specifying the ports and type of service

**Deployment Process**
- The auth service is implemented in server.py that contains the logic for handling authentication.
- A Dockerfile is created to build the server.py script into a Docker image, the image is then pushed to a Docker repository.
- When the Kubernetes configuration files are applied using kubectl apply -f ./ (make sure minikube is started), they interface with the Kubernetes API and manage the resources defined in the configuration files.
- The Docker image containing the auth service code is pullk9sed from the repository and deployed to the cluster.
- The Kubernetes API creates the necessary resources (e.g., pods, services) based on the configuration files.
- The Kubernetes API manages the resources in the cluster, such as deployments, services, ConfigMaps, and Secrets.
